[IMP] accounting: back to hash journal entries on post (#10906)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/reporting/data_inalterability.rst

   bigger than the number of atoms in the known universe. This is why hashes are considered unique
   in practice.

.. _data-inalterability/inalterability_features:

Inalterability features
=======================

Inalterability features can be enabled by activating the :ref:`secure posted entries with hash
<data-inalterability/restricted>` option on any journal or using the :ref:`secure entries wizard
<data-inalterability/wizard>`.

- Two indicators are added to the journal entry's form view.
  They show whether the entry is secured or not.

  - A :icon:`fa-lock` or :icon:`fa-unlock` (:guilabel:`lock icon`) icon next to the :guilabel:`Posted` state.
  - A :guilabel:`Secured` checkbox in the :guilabel:`Other info` tab.

> - A :guilabel:`Not Secured` filter is available on journal entries' and journal items' list views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A :guilabel:`Not Secured` filter is available on journal entries and journal items' list views.
```

>   It can be used to find journal entries that are posted but not secured yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It can be used to find posted journal entries that are not secured yet.
```

- The option to open the :ref:`secure entries wizard <data-inalterability/wizard>` is displayed in the
  :guilabel:`Accounting` menu.

.. _data-inalterability/restricted:

Secure posted entries with hash
===============================

To activate the hashing function on a specific journal, go to :menuselection:`Accounting -->

> Configuration --> Journals`. Open a sales, purchase or miscellaneous journal, go to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration --> Journals`. Open a sales, purchase, or miscellaneous journal, go to the
```

   bigger than the number of atoms in the known universe. This is why hashes are considered unique
   in practice.

.. _data-inalterability/inalterability_features:

Inalterability Features
=======================

The Inalterability Features can be enabled by activating the :ref:`Secure Posted Entries with Hash

> <data-inalterability/restricted>` option on any journal or using the :ref:`Secure Entries Wizard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<data-inalterability/restricted>` option on any journal or using the :ref:`secure entries wizard
```

<data-inalterability/wizard>`.

- Two indicators are added to the journal entry form view.
  They show whether the entry is secured or not.

>   - A lock icon next to the "Posted" state.

Author: I added the unlock icon too (to make it clearer that the icon changes)

>   - A "Secured" checkbox in the "Other info" tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A :guilabel:`Secured` checkbox in the :guilabel:`Other info` tab.
```

> - On journal entry list views a "Not Secured" filter is shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A :guilabel:`Not Secured` filter is available on journal entries' list views.
```

Author: It is now also available on the journal items' list views (so changed here too)

  It can be used to find journal entries that are posted but not secured yet.

> - The menu to open the :ref:`Secure Entries Wizard <data-inalterability/wizard>` is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The option to open the :ref:`Secure Entries Wizard <data-inalterability/wizard>` is displayed in the :guilabel:`Accounting` menu.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. _data-inalterability/restricted:

> Secure Posted Entries with Hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure posted entries with hash
```

===============================

> To start using the hashing function, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration > Journals`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To activate the hashing function on a specific journal, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals`.
```

> Open the journal for which you want to activate the feature, go to the :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a sales, purchase, or miscellaneous journal, go to the :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`
```

> tab, and enable :guilabel:`Secure Posted Entries with Hash`. We call journals for which the
> feature is activated "restricted".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tab, and enable :guilabel:`Secure Posted Entries with Hash`. Journals for which the
feature is activated are called "restricted".
```

> This feature is available for sales, purchase, and miscellaneous journals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To compute the hash of an entry, Odoo retrieves the predecessor entries of the chain (i.e., the
entries with the same sequence prefix) and hashes them in a continuous way from the last hashed
entry to the new entry to hash.

.. warning::
   Once you post an entry in a restricted journal, you cannot disable the feature anymore, nor edit
   any secured entry.

.. _data-inalterability/wizard:

> Secure Entries Wizard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure entries wizard
```

=====================

> You can also use the :guilabel:`Secure Entries` Wizard to secure journal entries,
> in all journals, up to a specific date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the :guilabel:`Secure Entries` Wizard to secure all journal entries
in **all** journals, up to a specific date.
```

.. note::
   The wizard operates independently of the journal settings and journal types.

>    It secures all entries in all journals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To open it, activate the :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`, go to :menuselection:`Accounting

> --> Accounting` and click on :guilabel:`Secure Entries`. In case the :ref:`Inalterability Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--> Accounting` and click on :guilabel:`Secure Entries`. If the :ref:`inalterability features
```

> <data-inalterability/inalterability_features>` are activated it is also visible outside the debug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<data-inalterability/inalterability_features>` are activated, it is also visible outside the debug
```

mode.

To secure entries, select a date up to which all entries should be secured and press
:guilabel:`Secure Entries`.

.. warning::

>    After securing the entries you will not be able to edit them any more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   After securing the entries, you can no longer edit them.
```

.. note::

>    It can happen that entries are secured that are past the selected date.
>    This is possible since the hash chain corresponds to the sequence prefix,
>    ordered by sequence number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It can happen that entries that are past the selected date are secured.
   This is possible since the hash chain corresponds to the sequence prefix,
   ordered by sequence number.
```

.. _data-inalterability/lock:

Lock posted entries with hash
=============================

To start using the hashing function, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration > Journals`.
Open the journal for which you want to activate the feature, go to the :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`
tab, and enable :guilabel:`Lock Posted Invoices with Hash`.

> The feature is available for sale, purchase and general journals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature is available for sale, purchase, and general journals.
```

Author: thanks

To download the data inalterability check report, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration
--> Settings --> Reporting` and click on :guilabel:`Download the Data Inalterability Check Report`.

The report's first section is an overview of all journal sequence prefixes containing hashed entries.

> In the "Restricted" column, you can see whether or not a journal has the :ref:`Secure Posted Entries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the :guilabel:`Restricted` column, you can see whether or not a journal has the :ref:`Secure Posted Entries
```

> with Hash <data-inalterability/restricted>` option (V) activated or not (X). The "Check" column tells

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with Hash <data-inalterability/restricted>` option (V) activated or not (X). The :guilabel:`Check` column tells
```

> you whether all entries are correctly hashed or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you whether all entries are correctly hashed.
```

.. image:: data_inalterability/journal-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Configuration report for two journals

> The second section gives you a more detailed result of the data consistency check for each hashed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second section gives a more detailed result of the data consistency check for each hashed
```
